There are several advantages and disadvantages to why you'd want to use a query-based network management
protocol.
Firstly, query-based protocols are reliable because it's query-based, the network management station
is queering or asking for information from a network device. If the NMS doesn't receive a response
from the device, that indicates a problem.
The fact that the NMS made a query and didn't get back a response indicates that there's a problem
on the network.
So no response equates to a problem query-based, also called polling-based network management protocols
can be scheduled and you can set how frequently that's done.
So you could pull the network on a very frequent basis or pull the network less frequently to reduce
the impact of the queries on the network.
As an example, you may not necessarily want to query a network device every five seconds because of
the overhead that you're putting on the network.
Now, in Orion Network Performance Monitor or Orion NPM also referred in this course to as solarwinds
NPM.
The default setting is two minutes for query-based polls for status information and nine minutes for
query based polling firm statistics.
Orion NPM uses both query and event based protocols.